vi myfile    -    create a new file
j	-   Moves cursor down one line (same as down arrow)
k	-   Moves cursor up line (same as up arrow)
l	-   Moves cursor to the right one character (same as right arrow)
h	-   Moves cursor to the left one character (same as left arrow)
w	-   Moves cursor to beginning of next word
e	-   Moves cursor to end of word
b	-   Moves cursor to beginning of previous word
$	-  Moves cursor to end of current line (same as End key)
0 (zero)	-   Moves cursor beginning of current line (same as Home key)
3G	 -   Jumps to third line (nG jumps to the nth line)
1G	 - Jumps to first line
Shift+G	-   Jumps to the last line
dw  -  Delete the word 
u  -  undo
4u   -   Undo the last 4 operations 
2dw   -   Delete two words
xxxx   -    Delete four characters, one at a time
14x  -   Delete 14 characters
dd  -   Delete the current line
p   -   Whatever was lasted deleted or yanked can be “pasted”
j   -   Join two lines, the current and the next by typing a capital J (Shift+J)
yw   -   Copy (or “yank”) the current word:
P   -     Paste (or “put”) the copied word before the current cursor by typing Shift+p
:%s/text //g  -   Search for and delete the word text (add a space after the word text):
1G    -  	Go to beginning of file (Shift+G)
i    - 	  Enter insert mode
Hello and	-   Add text to document with a space after “and”
ESC   -   Exit insert mode and return to command mode by pressing the Escape key:
l	-   Lowercase ‘L’ moves forward one space
~	-   Shift+` changes letter to lower case
:w  -   Save the file
o   -    Open a blank line below the current line 
O   -    Open a blank line above the current line
:x	Will save and close the file.
:wq	-      Will write to file and quit.
:wq!	-     Will write to a read-only file, if possible, and quit.
ZZ	    -     Will save and close. Notice that no colon : is used in this case.
:q!	  -         Exit without saving changes
:e!	   -    Discard changes and reload file
:w!    	-     Write to read-only, if possible.
/text   -      search for the text
n   -   Search for the next instance of the word
?line      -     Search backward for the word line
cw   -    You will replace the word line with the word entry
A     -    Add text at the end of a line
